Welcome back I hope you had fun working on this assignment.
In this video a walk through my solution from scratch starter came with H2O mellons.
SS So I'll leave those files alone I'll focus entirely on the javascript.
The first thing I'll do is write a function that will calculate character frequencies for a given input
string.
I'd like this function to return an array of objects where each object stores the character and its
count as values.
For example if the input is Hello I'd like the output to be an array with four objects.
That looks like this.
The reason why I want this structure is that it will be convenient to pass this array into D-3 data
method to join the array to elements implementing this function doesn't require any D-3 knowledge.
It's pure javascript how you implement this depends on how you want to order the characters.
I'd like them to appear alphabetically in my visualization so I'm going to split the string and sort
the resulting array.
Next I'll create an empty array to store my eventual output and write a for loop over my sorted array
to build up my data array.
You could also do this using a redos But let's keep things simple for now.
Since my array is sorted I know that any repeating characters will appear at consecutive positions.
This is helpful in figuring out the counts of each character first.
I'll grab the last element in the array if there is a last element and if that elements character property
matches the current character then I know I found a character that I've already seen before and I can
increment the count if I'm just starting out or if I'm seeing a new character then I can push a new
object into my array whose character property is the current character and whose count is one.
I'll never push two objects with the same character property into the array because I'm looping over
a sorted array so any duplicates will be caught by this condition condition.
Let's try this out with the string hello world
call.
This looks like it's working OK.
Let's get into the D-3.
I'll start with the form submission.
I'll need to use D-3 to listen for submit events on the form inside the callback.
First call prevent default on the event object which I have access to the A D-3 event.
Next I'll store the input as a D-3 selection and I'll grab its value using D-3 property method.
At this point there are a few things I need to do first.
I'll need to create an Enter selection and append some divs to the page so that I can see the frequencies
for each character.
I'll also need to update the text inside of the phrase div.
I'll leave the count div alone for now.
To draw this visualisation D3 let me select the letters container then select all elements inside of
it with a class of letter.
This will give me an empty selection that I can then join data to inside the data method.
I'll use our get frequency's function and passing the text from the form.
Then I'll hop into the enter selection appended div for each piece of data and add a class of letter.
I'll also add some of my own styles.
I'll fix the width and line height of 20 pixels and give each div some margin on the right will also
set the height based on the data.
Each time a given character appears in the string.
I'll add another 20 pixels of height.
I'll also set the entire text so that we can see the character finally for the div with an idea of phrase.
I'll set the inner text above based on the text from the form.
Let's see how this looks.
Not bad.
One thing I didn't do is clear out the input so let's do that
our form works the first time we submit it but not on subsequent tries to get the form working for multiple
submissions.
We'll need to use the general update pattern to get this working.
Let me first store the update selection in a variable for the update selection.
I want to make sure no element has a class of new since elements in the update selection already exist
on the page.
So I'll use the class method to remove the new class and then I'll hop into the exit selection and remove
any divs that don't need to be there next.
I'll move to the enter selection.
In addition to adding a class of letter I also want to add a class of new to the new elements so that
their inner tax is styled a bit differently.
The rest of the style changes I can move to the merged enter and update selection since they should
apply to both.
Let me also use this opportunity to update the count does when the form is submitted.
The number of new letters will be equal to the number of nodes in the enter selection.
Let's try this out.
The first submission looks good.
Now for the second.
This isn't quite right.
This is saying that there is only one new letter by G and I am and T didn't appear in our previous message.
So what's the the problem lies in how we join data.
We didn't pass in a key function.
So by default D-3 joined by index our second phrase has one more unique character than the first.
So D-3 thinks there's only one new character we can fix this by joining based on the character rather
than the index
let's try this again.
Here's the first phrase here's the second call.
Now the visualization correctly states that there are five new letters in our second phrase.
Let's finish things up by tackling the reset button compared to the form submission.
This is much more straightforward.
I'll target the button and listen for clicks inside of a callback.
I just need to select anything with a class of letter remove that selection and then clear out the text
inside of the phrase and count divs.
Let's make sure this works.
Here's one Grace here's another.
And now when I reset everything goes away.
Great.
I hope this is helpful when you're ready.
I'll meet you in the next section on SVGA.